Omair Ansari 
ansari.omair10@gmail.com ❖ (+91)8755388911 ❖ India 

PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY 

I'm currently on the lookout for a Quality Assurance position where I can leverage my skills and expertise. Armed 
with a Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, specialized in Artificial Intelligence, I bring a wealth of knowledge in 
software development, manual testing and test automation to the table. My passion lies in addressing complex 
challenges and propelling innovation in the field of technology. 
SKILLS 

Manual Testing 
DevOps and Version Control   

Data Analysis & Preprocessing  
Natural Language Processing   

Database Management 
Test Automation  

WORK EXPERIENCE  

Tivo (Xperi) 
Quality Assurance (QA) Tester 
Bangalore, IN 
▪  Detected and managed defects in downstream data pipelines under Agile and Scrum frameworks 
▪  Reported issues in Jira and ensured their prompt resolution by actively collaborating with the development team 

       June 2022 – June 2023 

until completion. 

▪  Developed well-structured test cases for four different releases, verifying the accuracy and correctness of 

developer-implemented changes. 

▪  Managed Docker Containers on Jenkins and monitored builds to ensure the accurate deployment of the 

intended build versions. 

▪  Designed and implemented a Python script with the purpose of detecting anomalies in metadata across Kafka 
and Mongo databases. The script generated analytical reports through Splunk, facilitating the identification of 
the root causes behind these discrepancies. 
Integrated the script into a Docker container within the Jenkins CI/CD pipeline and achieved an 85% reduction 
in processing time. 

▪ 

Tivo (Xperi) 
Software Developer 
Bangalore, IN 
▪  Developed an end-to-end Search Database website using Spring Boot Framework for efficient data retrieval. 
▪  Successfully integrated jQuery plugins and libraries to create interactive features, improving data presentation 

          Jan 2022 – May 2022 

and user engagement.  

▪  Utilized JavaScript, HTML and CSS to create visually appealing and responsive web interfaces, ensuring 

seamless user experiences. 

Pivony 
Data Scientist   
Turkey 
▪  Developed advanced natural language processing models for identifying troll accounts and categorizing topics. 
▪ 
Improved the accuracy and dependability of sentiment analysis models, enabling more precise sentiment 
identification within customer reviews of an application on Google Play store & Twitter. 

          June 2021 – December 2021 

▪  Employed data analysis and visualization techniques to extract keywords from the reviews of applications. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
        
Density-Based Occupation Estimation and Optimization         
Undergraduate Research Experience 
Dehradun, IN 
•  Developed crowd density-based decision-making algorithm for optimizing smart room devices, with a focus on 

 January 2021 – May 2021 

minimizing power consumption. 

•  Utilizing RSSI (Received Signal Strength Indicator) input from smart room setups to estimate crowd density, 

• 

offering a cost-efficient alternative to video-based solutions. 
Implemented an algorithm that considers the number of devices in an enclosed area, coverage length, and 
mapping using the population distribution matrix and employed optimization techniques to determine the 
optimal devices to activate. 

Robin Hood Army  
Volunteer Teacher (Social Internship)   
Uttar Pradesh, IN 
▪  Dedicated time to teach underprivileged children, providing valuable educational support. 
▪  Contributed to the organization's mission of eradicating hunger and illiteracy in local communities. 

        July 2019 – August 2019 

EDUCATION  

University of Petroleum and Energy Studies 
B. Tech in Computer Science Engineering- Specialization in AI & ML 
Uttarakhand 
Relevant extracurricular activities: 
▪  Active member of the Association for Computing Machinery. 
▪  Participated in a virtual hackathon organized by the Kuwait Foundation for the Advancement of Sciences 

(KFAS) for Covid Relief. 

▪  Contributed to IMA Blood Bank of Uttarakhand through regular blood donations, aiding local healthcare 

efforts and promoting community well-being. 

CERTIFICATIONS & INTERESTS 

▪  TensorFlow Developer professional certificate-Coursera 
▪  Interests: Football (Runner-up in Xperi Annual Football Tournament), Chess, Reading Mangas. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            
 
 
 
 
 
 
            
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
